Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we have a great treat in store for us today.
This is the first time this has happened to me and I am very honored that we have with us
one of America's great and fine citizens.
Somebody that you all know or read about or admire, former heavyweight champion of the boxing
champion of the world, Jack Dempsey.
Jack Good to see you.
Thank you very much, Senator.
It's a great privilege and a great honor to be here with you today.
Thank you very much.
Well, Jack Dempsey is in Washington today.
He's been autographing.
Jack, I see your hands are pretty, uh, thank you.
Yes, I need a little bath on this, Senator.
I'll be a picky panel.
Sports Illustrated has a special feature.
They are three greatest champions in ten sports and Jack Dempsey, Sugar Ray Robinson and
Joe Lewis are the old hand champions in the sport of boxing.
Jack's been here, autographing, sports illustrated and also Jack, I want to get a cut on this
role, but, uh, Robert Consta De Han wrote a great book, uh, Dempsey the Man.
That's right.
And you've been autographing a lot of books and so if we sell any on this program, I want
you to be sure and remember me.
I certainly will, Senator.
Thank you.
How are you feeling, Jack?
Very well, Senator.
Thank you.
I just got back from Honolulu where I was out there for the Armed Forces and had a wonderful
time and wonderful trip, met a lot of wonderful boys.
I hope we made a lot of people happy because they certainly made me happy.
Well, uh, as you folks know, uh, Jack Dempsey is spending a lot of time, uh, doing charities,
traveling around the world, putting on shows, uh, without any compensation for the benefit
of our men in the service who are serving abroad.
And I know they're always led to city.
So you show a lot of pictures of former fights and then talk about fighting at these.
Well we had, Senator, we had what they call a boxing clinic.
I had a man named Al Warden, a sports head with me.
First, uh, I was introduced and he was introduced.
But before all of this, we had pictures of some of the old fights and we had a picture
of this year life.
The picture lasts for about a nine or fifteen minutes and we talked about a nine and we had
about a nine and a half for questions and answers.
That about three hours and three and a half hours you'll be sure.
Jack, how'd you get this title of the man, uh, Manassee Muller?
Well, that was given to me, Senator, but the late Damon Rullion, Damon saw me fight in Colorado
where I was born and raised and when I came to New York in 1960 and he called me the
old manassee Muller.
So that's how I, that's entitled.
It was followed you every cent.
But he good luck and I kind of liked it.
Not the old manassee Muller, the young manassee Muller.
But then it was the manassee Muller but later on it got to be the old manassee Muller.
Exactly.
I don't like too much now, but it's all right.
Jack, you told me how old you were a few minutes ago and you mind saying again?
Not at all.
Senator, I'll be 66 in June, June 24th.
I'll be 66 years old.
Well, I just told you that if I look as healthy and you weigh 215 pounds, that's right, Senator.
It's healthy as you do when I get to be 66, I'll be mighty fortunate.
Well, thank you very much.
I think you look wonderful.
Well, Jack, uh, didn't a lot of your people come from Kentucky?
Uh, Tennessee?
Yes.
Uh, my people, most of my people and mother was born in Virginia.
My father and West Virginia and part of my family were in down in Tennessee and down Kentucky, down through there.
And you and all about these Tennessee and Kentucky ham?
I certainly do.
I was more or less raised on this.
Well, Jack, we were looking over your record here a little while ago and we found that, uh,
you fought a lot of times down in Tennessee, I believe that, uh,
like in 1918 you fought Fred Sadi and Memphis, Tennessee.
Do you remember that?
Yes, I remember very well.
I had boxed on that several times and had a wonderful time, we used to be a great sports center.
And that's Seiford, I believe, you fought him.
I just happened to think the name of the old promoter down there was Billy Hack, wonderful man,
a great promoter and a lot of good fighters came around there.
I'm sure a lot of people in Memphis still remember him.
Oh, they certainly do, I'm sure.
And then, uh, and shows you that in 1926 you had four opponents in Memphis and you knocked
them all out in, uh, one, one, well, that was a nice abyss in tour.
I remember that too, but they weren't too good.
Well, Jack, where did you, uh, when they, every week titles?
I won the titles from Jess Waller July 4th, 1919 at Toledo, Ohio.
And, uh, I remember that I was a high school student at Madisonville and in those days,
uh, that's a little town over in East Tennessee.
Those days there wasn't any television, no radio, and, uh, all of us went down to the railroad station
to get the return of the fight, that's all we could get around after round.
And I remember when you won the, every week champion.
What, uh, was that a rough fight?
Well, it was a big thing for me.
And, of course, everyone must be a fighter.
There is a fighter.
I have one ambition that's to be tied up to win the title.
Of course, that was my big day and big thrill.
But after thinking over and looking back all these years, it wasn't the tough fight.
It was an easy fight for me.
Matter of fact, one of the easiest fights I ever had because it was a one-sided fight.
Waller was big and strong, but he was very slow.
He's been out of the game for a couple years, and it made it a very easy fight for me.
What were your hardest fights, so you ever had?
Well, I'd say Sharky. I should say Tony twice because he'd like to be a footballer.
Well, you know, Jack Sharky, uh, he, you fought him a couple of times.
Yeah, just one time, son.
You know, I was up in New Hampshire, and I saw Jack Sharky sometime back,
and I ran for the Democratic nomination up there a few years ago.
You remember him?
I do.
I ran across this fellow who's out.
He was a great flakcaster to you.
Yes, he does a good job.
Very fine, fellow.
How about the FERPO fight?
Well, I was probably the Argentinian.
Yes, I was.
What are you looking at, folks?
And there were a matter of fact, I thought I was fighting in the Philippines.
I was fighting very much, and I should have that up when you're going to knock out myself.
After the first punch, I didn't know that I was in a fighter foot race.
I was knocked out of the ring and came back.
And, matter of fact, I was out about one minute before this starting of the second round.
I came to, I thought, I'd been knocked out, but my manager, Mr. Kern, said I hadn't,
I got lucky and finally knocked him out, but it was a great thrill, and I was pretty lucky.
So I remember he used to have a crouching style. He got right down the...
Well, I said it in the third point, that's it.
I'm low. I'm low. I'm low. I just got through it.
And then you held the championship for quite a long time, of course,
and I believe you lost it to June Tani and Philadelphia in 1926.
Yes, sir.
It's right.
Tani, a great fighter.
Tani was a good fighter, so I'd be a surre.
Then the next year you fought him out at Chicago.
That's right.
And we were talking about that being the battle of the long count.
That's right. That's exactly what it was.
How did that count go?
Well, it turned out very well for me either.
I remember you had him down, and instead of counting fast, the counting very, very slow.
Well, it wasn't that simple. Exactly. They passed this new law,
were a man scoring a knockdown, and she'd go through a neutral corner.
And they had what they called a knockdown timekeeper.
Outside was to pick the count up as a man went down.
The man inside was to put you in a neutral corner,
then you come back and pick the count up and you listen with the man outside.
Well, I made the first mistake, but I was going back to the neutral corner.
And I think the referee made the second mistake, not picking with the count up
and you listen with the man outside.
Now, he got up to about eight, and Tani had that referee started all over.
But I always contend it was a great fight for Jack Dempsey.
Why, sir? You're low.
Well, the reason I say that, a lot of my friends who saw the fight still think I wanted.
As long as I can keep them thanking that, I still say it was a great break for Jack Dempsey
and a tough break for Gene Tani.
Because you're still the champ in the minds of a lot of people, and...
Well, then that may be able to do something else that you want.
Uh, Cendra, it isn't how you start, but it's how you finish.
In other words, they didn't see me on the floor, and they didn't see me caught it out.
In other words, they still remember that fight.
And if I can keep them remember that and have them think the way they do, I'm very happy.
Now, you were talking, we were talking about...
You said something about Jack Kern's a little while ago.
He was your manager? Yes, sir. He was my manager. He was with me when I won the title.
We had him before our Andy Truston, an awfully subcommittee, some time back, and he was still very spry.
He said he had fought in Alaska back in the days of Jack London in those old days, and he said...
Who was that? Was his manager?
I mean, was Jack Kern's manager? Yes, I think.
He was Urb, while Bill Urb's name?
Well, I'll be Urb. Yes.
Jack Kern is about 80, you know.
Well, I don't know exactly how old he is. I think he's got to be up there because I'm 56 under, and he's at least 15 or 20 as I'd think,
older than I am, so he must be around 26.
No, he's 66, sir. You don't look more than 56, but thank you.
Well, uh, uh, Jack, you've been following boxing all these years since that time.
What do you think about present day boxers, is compared with the...
second, the old days when you and Fr. Owen Sharky...
Well, Sunder, I certainly need to want to degrade anyone, or make anyone look bad.
I think the further back we go in the fight game, the more rugged, the more better, and the champion's better fighters.
We had no days because they had more experience in background, and the present modern day fighters have.
I think the old time fighters were better.
Right, they have clubs back in the old days, so you should cut them better.
Well, they fought more often, I think they were better seasoned, and they had better trainers.
In other words, these fellows had long experienced background, and know what to do,
which the modern fighters doesn't get that experience in background, the old time has got.
And, uh, hmm, well, who do you think is the best in the fight game today?
Well, I, and the heavyweight division, I would still say Paterson, because he's still the champion,
but as I said before, I don't think these fellows we have to be compared with the old time fighters.
Uh, did you see the, uh, Joe Hanson, uh, Paterson fight?
I saw the first two fights, but I didn't miss, I didn't see the last one center.
Uh, well, I see, Sonny Liston is, uh, challenging, uh, Paterson, present time.
Uh, how do you think that might come out as they fight?
Well, I don't think Paterson takes a punch any too well, but at the same time he's a good boxer,
he's clever, he moves around good. I saw Liston one fight, and he looked very slow,
and very awkward with the time he fought, uh, Mason.
I think that was important, Oregon last winter.
No, it makes him hit some, of course, he knocked Paterson out, but you gotta hit him in before you knock him out.
And, uh, they, neither one of them take, uh, looks too well.
That's right, they don't take a punch too well.
Uh, and Jack, you're, uh, in addition to doing all your charities,
and you work with the armed services, you have a, a pretty big fine restaurant in New York.
Yes, sir, thank you for listening. Thank you, sir.
Uh, one time I was there and you came in.
Well, now, uh, pretty soon we're going to have hearings about a boxing bill.
We all know that, uh, fighting business has, uh, gotten in many places into the hands of racketeers,
and improper people, and has been degraded considerably.
Uh, has that been your experience here?
Is there any, I send to you, my congratulations, and best wishes.
I only wish we had a few more men who would stick up for the boxing game and put it back
where it wasn't the oldies. The fight game is just about on its way out.
In other words, it's just ready to be buried if something's not done and done fast.
And I've read your, your book.
Well, I've read that before we do that, uh, uh, saving thing about that.
I think the American people want good clean boxing in the hands of good people.
They, they certainly do. They do.
They want to look up to the world champion and know that there isn't any funny stuff
been going on in connection with it.
Uh, I'm certainly going to want to throw a rock scene one, but if the fight game is saved,
it's got to be saved through the government.
You must come in, step in and make these laws where we all know what they're all about.
If we get out of the line, we're not going to play the game.
In other words, you've got to play it on the level.
We've got to have rules and regulations government that because these states cannot get together.
Well, pretty soon we're going to have you down here with a, uh, other great men of the boxing, uh,
game, former champions, June, Tony and others to test fine connection with S1474,
which is for the purpose of cleaning out the racketeers and the boxing game.
Uh, manager is promoters and whatnot so that America, the fighters themselves and American people
can have confidence in it.
Uh, you've been studying this matter.
What's your feeling about it?
Well, I think you're 100% right.
I think there's many things we talked about.
And I think there's many changes can be made for the betterment boxing.
But first, I think you're doing the right thing, but getting rid of the blood of undesirables
who do not belong in the boxing game.
Uh, well, and as you say, uh, some states may have some regulations, some may have others,
and if they have trouble in one state, they simply move on to another and have the fight there.
That's correct.
I think we should have a unified ruling on all these things and a national boxing commission,
whatever you want to call it to see if these players stay in line.
Well, that's the purpose of this bill and you're going to support it.
There's certainly am 100%.
Jack, we have a few minutes left.
Young people, young men, boys, all look up to you and they know that you were a great fighter
and a true fine man.
What would be a few seconds your advice to young people who want to build up their physique?
I wouldn't tell them to go in the fight game right now.
But if they like fighting, in other words, do whatever you want to do.
First, I think the most important thing is that, therefore, all the children today
is to get an education, a good background.
If they do that, they go through life, which I didn't have, I've always regarded.
But I think an education is very important.
Then, live with a golden rule.
Do one to others as you'd like to be done by.
And if you do that, you'll get a long fine.
Well, I have others and your churches and you'll be fine.
I wish we could go on to this because I know you have a lot of good advice to give the young people
of the nation, but our time is up and thank you very much, Jack.
Thank you, son.
Mr. Lee, wait.
Pobby's in Pai-Zabie, will you?
Appreciate it tremendously.
That's all for now.
Thank you.
He was in public life in Washington today.
And has been here for a number of years.
His Adrian Fisher from Memphis.
Adrian goes home and sees all of his kin folks every year.
And his wife comes from Nashville.
His father was a very distinguished congressman from Shelby County District for many years.
And the House of Representatives.
Adrian, we certainly aren't glad to have you here with us.
I'm awful honor to be here.
You want to say hello to all your kin folks down in Tennessee.
Well, I'd like to very much, as you know, a board of Memphis, as you said,
my wife's a nice fellow.
And my mother's family, come from Nashville.
And when I first met you, it was a junior chamber of commerce,
and they made me an honor, and I was with Chad and I.
So I feel very much at home when I go home.
Well, that takes you to all parts of the state, all right?
Folks, let me tell you a little bit about Adrian Fisher.
He was a locked lurk for Justice Brandeis and Frank Furter,
when he first got out of Harvard.
He was a legal advisor for the UN delegation, technical advisor at the Neuronburg Trials.
He was the General Counsel for the Atomic Energy Commission.
And he has now, they depredate to John J. Matlowey,
who is President Kennedy's advisor on disarmament,
so that Mr. Fisher has had a great deal of experience in government,
and is one of the most knowledgeable and influential men in Washington.
Adrian, we are talking about the Berlin crisis,
and we are getting our defense establishment in better order,
so that we will be able to take care of ourselves and any emergency.
Why are we doing all this in the same time talking about disarmament?
What is the disarmament program anyway?
Well, as I see it, there are really two sides to the same coin.
I think the President was, of course, right in his speech last week
in terms of increasing our arms strength.
But if at the same time you don't have a willingness to negotiate
a workable arms reduction agreement, workable disarmament arrangements.
We're headed down a road of an unlimited arms race,
and the end of that is one that's not terribly pleasant to contemplate.
My feeling is that at the same time that we remain firm and remain strong,
we indicate a continuing willingness to conduct workable disarmament negotiations.
I don't really see the long run any workable targets.
What was it that Western Churchill said one time about working for disarmament?
Well, he said we are armed at parly, and it seems to me you have to have a little bit of both.
You can't negotiate from weakness, and the other hand you can't just arm for the sake of armament.
You've got the arm for workable arrangements.
Where the Mr. Matlow is, the chief and you, the deputy,
where have these disarmament conversations been taking place?
What is the situation?
Well, of course you have the test band talks in Geneva that Mr. Arthur Dean is conducting.
The general disarmament talks were disrupted last June,
which was under the previous administration when the Russians walked out
of the Ten Nation Conference in Geneva.
We have been holding some bilateral discussions.
We had two weeks in Washington, June, and two weeks in Moscow, in July.
Mr. McClaulay and his group, of which I was privileged to be won, just got back Sunday.
It does seem strange that I was in Moscow Sunday morning and here Sunday night.
That's the so-so-give-you-sort of indication how small the world is now.
I want to ask you about Moscow in many, but let me ask.
I think all of us hope, and I think the plain people
that we have ever were in the world would like to see us try to do something better
than just prepare for wars and spend all of our sustenance and money,
and manpower preparing for wars.
But of course we have to be prepared.
We have to have our defenses up.
But it's important, as you say, at the same time that we leave no stone unturned
and an effort to try to find some peaceful solution to the problems of the world.
And that's what you're doing.
Well, that's what we're trying to do.
That's what you're trying to do.
Well, we must anyway always be willing to talk if anybody wants to talk reasonably about this problem.
You said that you were in Russia just last week?
Yes, we left Sunday morning.
We left Moscow Sunday morning about 8 o'clock.
Mr. McClaulay was there, and so Mr. Kruchef, I believe.
Mr. McClaulay went to Moscow.
We left two weeks ago Friday and flew over there.
And we spent about a week or so in Moscow.
And Mr. McClaulay, about this time last week, flew down to the Black Sea to Suchi.
And was Mr. Kruchef's visitor for, I think, two nights in a day.
Well, I don't suppose as much you can tell us about Mr. McClaulay's conversations.
Mr. Kruchef, or is there anything you can do?
Well, not a great deal, Senator.
They covered the waterfront to a degree, although Mr. McClaulay was there.
He's only official capacity. Is that dealing with disarmament negotiations?
I think it's fair to say that this is more or less the...
Bring me Kruchef, put you on quite a show.
Yeah, I had a chance about four years ago talking with him while myself.
He was able to manage a saw that would bang the table and get up and walk around talking through an interpreter.
He got all excited, and he put you on quite a show, as you.
Well, he's all excited one minute, and then quite friendly to the next, so I understand.
But I really can't go into any end of detail on it.
Well, you know, what do you have an opportunity to go into Russia when you were there?
Well, I stuck pretty close to Moscow.
I stayed at the hotel, you crane, and walked over to the embassy, and then walked to the conference room.
And I didn't get around very much.
I was sort of tendin' the store during the period of the Suchi Conferences.
We had some work going on in the disarmament delegation, and as the second man,
that was what I was doin' with Mr. McClaulay.
That was out of the city, so to speak.
As you visited any of the country.
Not a great deal, sir.
I was impressed.
Moscow was not as drab as city.
I'm told now it used to be. It still has sort of a drab look to it, but people are still fundamentally very friendly.
You mean, in spite of all of the hit America campaign?
They get propaganda until it must be coming out of the ears, saying what awful people we are,
and yet they'd recognize you as an American in the street.
You didn't detect any on the average Russian.
I'm not talking now about the indoctrinated official, but the average Russian seemed just as...
Curious and as pleasant as...
You'd find someone walking down the streets of Memphis, not your own national jet-nigger.
The average Russian doesn't want to have an all-out atomic war in more than we do.
I'm sure they don't.
These people didn't look war-like to me. They look friendly.
Well, Adrian, where do we go to from now?
What are the plans for the disarmament talks?
Well, we have a...
These talks were tempted to establish a framework for resumed by...
monolateral negotiations.
We wanted to agree at where they would be conducted under what set of ground rules,
and we didn't come to any conclusion on it.
As a result, the bilateral discussions will resume in New York,
I would suspect sometime after Labor Day.
One of the things that we are extremely important though,
and it's important that it be done fairly quickly,
is to get the disarmament activity set up on a statutory basis,
that's the Bill that President Kennedy set up to the Congress,
because it's really important to have your disarmament negotiations
as well prepared and as well organized and as factually well-readed to argue,
as it's humanly possible to be.
And while we've been working pretty hard on it,
we're still not satisfied with the organization,
and we feel that there ought to be a statutory-based organization
to conduct the sort of research and to give you the sort of backup papers
that you really feel that you need.
The stakes on this are just too high to be satisfied with anything
less than the best as far as preparations can take place.
In other words, there are so many trouble points in the world
that are going to have to be settled if we are ready to have this armament,
or any step toward it,
that has to be a great deal of background work done,
and we have to know what we're talking about.
That is correct, sir, and I think you can consider
that we're spending roughly $45 billion a year on the arms side of it,
and a countless number of people,
as you consider private industry, education, and services themselves.
It's pretty important that you have not a big,
but a authoritative and select organization dealing with the disarmament area.
And I know a lot of people say,
well, with Berlin in the areas,
there's no time to be talking about passing a bill dealing with a disarmament agency.
In the other hand, I can't think of a better time myself,
unless we're prepared to say,
well, I'm going to keep on arming,
keep going on the arms race, and let's come what may.
Well, when you start thinking now about the horrendous quality of modern weapons,
and what could happen in the event of a thermonuclear war,
it really makes you decide that perhaps considering disarmament on a workable basis
is worth spending a good deal more time on,
and a good deal more man hours on than even we're doing now,
and it's been stepped up quite substantially over the past six months.
Of course, in time has passed, we've made a mistake,
I think, in disarmament ourselves,
but the other side's not doing much about it.
This time we're going to be sure that if we take a step that the Soviets,
so the communists are taking a step, is that?
That is certainly true, and now I remember being quite interested in reducing the arm forces
the United States by at least one back in 1945 and 1946,
but we went down from around 13 million to about a million and a half
with absolutely no motion of a similar character,
and nowhere near that much, and found part of the Russians.
Now that was just a mistake, and this mistake I don't think we should ever make again.
I think the unilateral disarming is wrong.
I think the whole purpose of this organization,
the whole purpose of the disarmament effort,
is to work out some arrangement under which the two opposing forces
can put down the amount of time, money, and sweat that they're putting into arms
on a mutually safe basis.
As far as the unilateral disarming of 1945 and 1946 is concerned,
I don't think we should ever repeat that mistake again.
Well, a minute ago you mentioned the Berlin crisis,
and I think that, certainly,
I think most Americans plotted the firm definite stand that the President
Kennedy took in his recent speech in connection with Berlin.
How does the situation look to yours, anything?
You can tell us about the problem.
Well, I was really not much you can add what the President said.
It may seem strange.
I certainly applauded that speech myself,
and far from seeing any inconsistency with it,
and with the willingness to work out a workable disarmament arrangement,
an essential step for an ovenly sound disarmament arrangement to come into being.
I don't think with Kruciep having announced that he increased his own armed forces
roughly 35%, his military budget 35%.
We can say, all right, we're no matter what you do, we're going to say in the same level.
I think that's wrong.
I think what the President did was right,
but I think he indicated he's open to negotiation,
and if we can work out a sound and effective controlled disarmament,
it seems to me will be that much better off.
I thought the President's speech was a step in that direction.
We've got to negotiate, if we negotiate from a position of strength, be successful.
I just forgot.
Well, we have about one minute left.
We have a foreign aid bill that's coming up,
and the Congress is next week, and there'll be a great deal of debate about it.
And what is your general feeling about the aid developing nations
and to our friendly nations in these systems?
Well, Senator, of course, strongly behind that,
I was in on the beginning of this, and 48 working with the Harman Committee on foreign aid,
and although I haven't been on it recently because I've had enough trouble staying ahead of my own work,
all I can say, though, is I know the way that the Congress likes to have an annual check-on.
Things and the big fights you're going to have about authority on a non-annual basis.
But when you're dealing with re-making the economy,
you have particularly an underdeveloped country, and that's terribly important to us.
It's awfully hard for them to plan on a year-by-year basis.
You don't make economic plans in a year-by-year basis.
No private business does, and it's pretty hard to expect a newly emerging country to do it.
Otherwise, the President ought to be able to make some commitment over a period of two or three or four years and back it up.
Yes, sir, I'm finished.
You know, sir, I've been counseled on many private firms,
and you're for you entered political life,
but very few private firms make their own plans on a year-by-year basis.
They make them on somewhat larger basis,
and I think the government should be able to do the same thing.
Well, I think it's very deal to that argument.
Well, Adrian, it's sure it's good to have you with us on this program,
and we appreciate very much.
You're telling us about the disarmament program,
and I know that your friends in Tennessee are my glad to see you looking so well and rugged.
Thank you very much, Andy. I appreciate the opportunity to be in here.
That's all for now. Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
We started out this series of television programs early in January
with a majority leader, Senator Mike Mansfield, of Montana as I guess.
Talk about the program that he expected,
or the Congress expected to enact during this first session of the 87th Congress.
And we wind up our program on this occasion,
because in a few days, the Congress will have recess for the rest of this session,
with another distinguished leader of the Congress,
the whip of the United States Senate.
He is my friend and the very able legislator,
who has had a great part in the enactment of the legislation that we have accomplished during this term,
Senator Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota.
Hubert is certainly as a pleasure to have you on the program with us.
Well, Estes, it's a joy to be on a program with you,
and it's a greater joy, and it's a rare privilege to serve with you in the United States Senate.
And before you get a chance to say one more word about me or about this program,
I want your friends to know and your constituents of this splendid work,
the outstanding work that you have accomplished and undertaken here in the Congress of the United States.
I wish to say to your people that I've never known a man with greater integrity and greater courage in the legislative chamber,
and I want to compliment you.
Well, Hubert, I swear, General, don't be so...
Didn't expect that.
If I had known you're going to say all these things, I'd have had you down here every time I had a program.
And I thank you very much.
And I think that everyone who is watching and hearing this program will know that
Senator Humphrey has been the most active man on the United, on the floor of the Senate during this session,
as he always is, and that the many, many legislative accomplishments of this session are in a great measure due to him.
I don't think anybody sponsored more legislation or fought it through more successfully.
Now, Hubert, first I'm going to explain what the Senate is.
We have the majority leader who has Senator Mansfield.
And the next in command is the Whipple Senate.
He has a big whip, the fights for the program, he gets the members present,
and tries to push the bills through committees to get them in shape so that they can be acted upon intelligently and full debate.
How do you like being with the Senate?
Do you want to tell us more about...
Well, I like it.
...punschibilities?
I like it very much as this.
It takes a lot of time, though.
It does. It takes a great deal of time, but has brought me into closer contact with my colleagues in the Senate.
I think I've gone to have a greater appreciation of their problems.
Besides that, it's a real pleasure to work with Senator Mansfield, the majority leader,
who in his quiet and yet understanding and sincere manner,
is performing a great, or fulfilling a great job as the majority leader.
And his record as a leader, I think, is excellent.
It's been a kind of pleasure to work with it.
Yes, he's a wonderful man.
Well, first let's talk about some of the domestic accomplishments.
Hugh Britt, I think since the World War II has been the busiest session of Congress that I've ever been in.
Yes. We've certainly been very, very busy day and night and in committees.
Let's talk about the domestic scene.
What were some of the accomplishments on the domestic program?
Well, Senator Kiefoffer, the very first thing one ought to say about the Senate is that we have to undertake the confirmation of all of the presidential nominations for these many jobs in the government, these high, these positions of high responsibility.
In the beginning, this took a great deal of our time because each person appointed goes through the process of hearings and testimony and then recommendation by the Committee and action by the Senate.
That within itself is a major accomplishment.
And then we have to ratify all the tributes.
Ratify the treaties, yes.
I would say that our record was really very good.
Now, we have unfinished business, but we have two sessions of the Congress.
Let's just take a look, for example, one of the first acts of this administration when it found a recession on its hands.
It's an inherent inherent in that recession, was to act quickly in the field of temporary unemployment compensation.
The expansion of aid to dependent children of the unemployed.
Now, this went right directly to people.
The President ordered the wider distribution of our surplus food.
That was his first action.
First action, yes, sir.
And then the food stamp plan in certain areas of the United States was put into effect.
And then, Estes, you may recall the minimum wage law, which increased minimum wages to $1.25 and extended the coverage to 3,600,000 more persons.
This was the greatest improvement in the minimum wage law since its original passage under Franklin Roosevelt.
And we had the area redevelopment program.
That's a very important program, Hubert, and it offers an awful lot of hope to people in many areas of Tennessee, because we have depressed areas both in the rural and in other sections of Tennessee, particularly as a result of the Depression and the Cool Man in the House.
Tell us briefly what the area redevelopment bill does.
Well, the area redevelopment bill provides loans for industries and local communities to provide new industries, new job opportunities to improve local communities for new industries.
It also provides grants of money to local governments, when a local government is attempting to build a new factory site or to expand its community facilities.
What the area redevelopment means is a kind of a domestic aid program for our own needy areas and our own underdeveloped areas.
Now, we have an area like this in Northeastern Minnesota, in the Iron Range Country.
You visited that Estes, you have many friends there, just as you have these problems in the coal mining section.
It provides for the retraining of workers.
Yes, right, and the relocation of workers.
And it is, I say, for facilities, for plant equipment, for the improvement of jobs.
Let's move on to some other things. How about social security and highway is airport development?
Yes, we expanded our social security program.
We increased the payments on an average of about 10%.
We took care of the highway program by...
In social security men cannot draw of social security when they reached 62.
age 62, and there were a number of improvements in that social security program.
We are going to, we brought up to date the highway program.
You may remember, under the previous administration, they sort of stretched it out.
Well, we brought it back on to schedule. We advanced more money to the states for their highway construction program.
To get people to work and to take care of the highway needs.
The Airport Act was passed, which will help all of the states in localities with airport development.
We have an awful lot of towns and cities at once, the airport development, too.
And then you recall, we passed the, what we call the water pollution control act.
The congressman Blotnik, who, and he are good friends, from my state, was the author in the house.
And I had the privilege of sponsoring it here in the Senate.
This provides a aid to 5,000 communities for their sewage disposal facilities.
To prevent the pollution of lakes and streams and to really protect the public health.
Then besides that, Senator Keefer, for there was a tremendous program in the field of health.
Your good friend, Lister Hill.
Senator Hill is chairman of that committee on health legislation.
Brought to the Senate the greatest program for the national institutes of health in our fight against cancer.
And against the diseases of the nervous system and against heart disease.
The greatest program we've ever had.
We also have the Community Health Facilities Act.
They will provide their nursing home care and facilities for our elderly.
New hospital construction.
This is without a doubt the largest and the most singularly important act relating to hospital facilities that we've ever passed.
And then the housing bill.
The housing bill too, which I'm not a whole lot in the way of housing, building housing and giving people employment as well.
Then here, but another thing I thought I was very much interested in the wilderness bill to try to preserve some of the natural beautiful places that we have intact.
And that was the past during this session.
Yes, that was that.
There's been one this year fight, you know.
There's been a long, long fight and you've taken a leading part of it.
I suppose one of the disappointments was that we didn't get a full federal aid for education in this session.
What did we get in the way of education, you mean?
Well, we received a two-year extension of the National Defense Education Act, which has been a very successful act, you know.
And then we received a two-year extension of what we call Public Law 815 and 874.
These are laws that relate to helping the school districts in the localities where there's a great deal of federal activity.
Now you have some of that now, Tennessee.
Oak Ridge and Clarksville and Sola Homa many places in Tennessee.
And you know that under those two laws, 815 and 874 are a Senator Kefaw for almost $2 billion of federal aid has been distributed since 1950.
And then we'll be back next term, next session also trying to get some other files.
The president has told us that he's going to press again for a general school program in higher education and an elementary and secondary education in the next session.
We're not giving up any more than, by the way, on our medical care, on our hospital care program for the elderly.
That's going to be one of the prime items.
And the second session, the 87th Congress, starting next January, we're going to put hospital protection for our citizens, age 65, who are under Social Security.
We're going to put it within the Social Security program so that people will not have to undertake a means test and go around asking and begging for something, but it'll be theirs by right.
Yes, and it's not going to be in such fashion that anybody needs to be a Socialized Medicine.
Oh, it relates only to free payment of hospital care.
Now we have a few minutes left to talk about our international affairs.
And you have taken a very leading part and not only a squip of the Senate, but also as a senior member of the Foreign Relations Committee.
Just a list and explain what we've done.
The first thing we had, of course, was in connection with Berlin and stepping up our defense effort.
Yes, Senator, you've been very active in that, yourself, as a member of the Armed Services Committee.
You know that we had to add some $6 billion of new appropriations to bring up to date our defense structure.
We found ourselves within adequate forces for the kind of a world in which we live.
And this has been done. We've had a space program, fantastic space program.
Of over a billion and a half dollars, and this had all been lagging, been permitted to sort of be at half pace where we've stepped it up.
We're not going to let the Russians occupy outer space. This doesn't belong to them.
We're catching up and catching up rapidly.
The foreign aid program is not only a new program, but it's a new administration being completely reorganized.
From Washington, D.C., right out to the country level itself.
And the president has insisted upon a new and the infected organization.
We don't want this waste in the program.
We want every dollar that we put into foreign aid to produce some results.
And as you know, most of it today is on the basis of loans.
Repiable in dollars.
And I think this makes a much more sensible program.
Then we have the people.
And our emphasis has been, but on technical assistance to the economic aid.
That's correct.
That is correct.
What we call the human resources and the material resources of the country.
I mentioned the Peace Corps.
I want to say a word about the Peace Corps.
Every time I talk with people interested in international affairs, they explain the necessity of some method of people to people,
to get into no one another and to help technicians helping people in other nations, particularly the newly developed nations.
Well, this is something that really catches their captures, the imagination.
The Senator who took the lead and putting forth and getting enacted the Peace Corps is Senator Humphrey.
And I think it's one of the most important pieces of legislation that's passed this Congress.
Now you tell us something.
Well, that's a wonderful introduction.
I'll just say very quickly what we're doing is calling upon the young people of our country, trained, experienced, healthy, filled with vitality and idealism and determination and qualified to help other people help themselves, to help them in education and health, in construction and road building, in improvement of the land, in agriculture.
And I'll tell you when you export American youth for the purposes of Peace and for the purposes of building, you help make a better world and you improve the prospects for World Peace.
And the response has been very encouraging.
Then wonderful, Estus.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, I know that you have enjoyed visiting with Senator Humphrey, the equip of the Senate as I have.
We certainly appreciate you being with us, Hubert. This is the last program during this year and I want to thank this station for carrying it as a public service.
Until the beginning of the next session of the Congress. Goodbye.